[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: So you can't talk about
a stack without talking about queue,
I believe that's legally required.
A stack is, I always get mess ups,
I always checked last in first out.
A queue is first in, first out.
So a queue is just a line for any of
you that don't speak British like it's
literally, like you stand in line and then
the person has been in line longest gets
out of the line right that,
that makes sense to us.
It's fair.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
similar to people queuing online.
It has methods called enqueue and
then it has a method called dequeue,
which basically enqueue adds
something to the array and
then dequeue take something off the front.
>> Speaker 2: [COUGH]
>> Brian Holt: So unlike stack,
you can also peak to see the next
thing coming off usually.
So queues are useful for
other programming things.
Obviously, not programming languages,
because that'd be weird.
But let's say,
you needed to print something.
That's usually done in a queue.
If I added it first to the printer,
I should have first rights to do it.
And if a bunch of us add things to the
printer, we don't want it to be last in,
first out, right?
Otherwise, everyone would be waiting until
someone was about ready to print and
then was like, no, I'm gonna print it.
That would be terrible, because then you
would never be able to print anything.
Otherwise, Janice from accounting is going
to be printing all of her documents before
you can print anything.
Does anyone watch John Oliver?
I do,
cuz Janice from accounting don't give up.
Yeah, [LAUGH] that's
what that's referring to.
This also priority queues and this
should be something more like networking
where you have some packets are way
more important than other packets right.
And so, they need to be pushed
to the front of the queue.
So my classic example,
cuz I worked in ethics is streaming video.
You want those streaming video
packets to be highly prioritized.
Because if you start skipping
packets when you're streaming video,
you start skipping frames and everyone's
really sad and then you call me and
you even get mad at me and everyone cries.
So you want those streaming video packets
be way higher priority than your Dropbox
ones, cuz your Dropbox ones
can just happen whenever.
It needs to sync sometime.
It can be later, but I need to
watch my House of Cards right now.
That's what a priority queue is.
So basically, you give it a priority and
things with higher priorities go towards
the front of the queue and
then things with lower lower priority go
to the back of the queue and
that's the idea behind a priority queue.
So where those can get a little bit hairy
sometimes is if you have a lot of higher
priority traffic and you have things
that are in your low priority traffic,
that stuff actually might never get done.
You might never run out of
high-priority things to do.
So sometimes you have to have some sort of
algorithm that's going through and say,
okay, this has been in here long enough
that I'm gonna start bumping up its
priority until eventually
it's gonna get done.
Maybe.
>> Brian Holt: They have their own
problems, just like everything.
>> Brian Holt: So,
that's it for interfaces.
Any questions about
interfaces before we move
on?
>> Brian Holt: It's just useful computer
science knowledge to have, cuz people will
say these things and just expect you.
Already know what that is,
which is frustrating.
So hopefully,
that adds some more tools to your toolbox.